Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a drama film called
"Fight Club."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A man who works as an automobile recall specialist
has started to feel disenchanted with his
mundane life as the stress of his job keeps
building up.
He spends his free time browsing through a
furniture catalog and buying anything that
he finds interesting, but nothing satisfies
him.
Apart from the stress at the office, he also
has to deal with jet lag as the job requires
him to travel out of the city regularly.
Due to the constant pressure, he has been
unable to sleep for six months.
His doctor tells him not to worry too much
because no one has ever died of insomnia.
However, the Man says that he is also suffering
from narcolepsy, causing him to wake up in
strange places with no recollection of how
he got there.
He asks the doctor for medication, but the
doctor tells him that he only needs natural
sleep.
When the Man tells him that he's in pain,
the doctor dismisses his concerns and tells
him to attend a testicular cancer support
group so he could see people in real pain.
One day, the Man decides to go to a meeting
and listen to the people sharing their grievous
experiences.
Near the end of the session, he meets Bob,
an ex-body builder who had his testicles removed
because of a disease that causes him to produce
too much testosterone.
Bob opens up to him, telling him about his
steroid use, which has led to his divorce
and bankruptcy.
Bob hugs the insomniac and tells him that
it's okay to cry.
As Bob holds him on his chest, the Man decides
to set his emotions loose and cry his heart
out.
The Man has since been sleeping well at night,
so he kept attending various support groups
for people with severe diseases despite being
in perfect health.
The Man feels refreshed, and at peace every
time he comes out of each session, but that
feeling of tranquility is soon broken by a
woman named Marla Singer, who has been attending
the same support groups.
Marla's presence in the same meetings that
he attends bothered him so much that he had
difficulty sleeping again.
One night, the Man confronts Marla and threatens
to expose her, but she shrugs him off and
threatens to uncover his secret too.
He tells Marla that he can't release his emotions
when another faker is present, so he asks
her to split the support groups between them.
After the negotiations, they decide to exchange
numbers in case that they want to switch places.
Marla notices that the Man, who had been using
different aliases in each support group, neglected
to put his name on the card he gave to her.
So she calls out to him from across the street,
but the Man disappears after a bus passes
between them.
Despite attending the meetings, the strain
of his job still weighs on him as he travels
to different cities.
On a flight back home, he meets Tyler Durden,
a soap salesman who grabs the Man's attention
by explaining his theory about the oxygen
masks on planes.
Tyler surmises that the masks are there to
make the passengers high during an emergency,
so they will be docile and accept their fate.
The Man says that Tyler has been the most
interesting person that he has met on a plane.
After getting off the aircraft, he finds out
that his briefcase was confiscated due to
a mysterious vibration.
When he gets home, he finds that his apartment
has caught fire.
With nowhere to go, he calls Tyler and invites
him to a bar for a drink.
At the bar, he tells Tyler about the fire
and laments the loss of all his possessions.
Tyler advises the Man to avoid pursuing material
things because they will end up owning him
instead of the other way around.
Aside from being a soap salesman, the Man
learns that Tyler also works as a projectionist
at a theater and a banquet waiter at a luxurious
hotel.
But instead of doing his job well, he slips
in a few frames of indecent clips into the
films and sabotages the food at the restaurant
by urinating on them.
After the drinks, Tyler invites him to stay
at his place, but before they go, he asks
the Man to hit him in the face as hard as
he can.
The Man hesitantly punches Tyler and hits
him in the ear.
Tyler punches him back in the chest, causing
him to stagger to the ground.
Despite being hurt, the Man feels exhilarated,
so they continue to fight each other.
After another round of drinks, Tyler and the
Man head home.
When they arrive, the Man instantly notices
the house's dilapidated condition, leading
him to speculate that Tyler is squatting.
Tyler and the Man keep on fighting outside
the bar over the next few nights, and they
have started to attract the attention of other
men.
Spectators then turned into participants,
and their popularity grew to the point that
they could hold the fights in the bar's basement.
Each week, Tyler would lay down the rules
of the fight club to welcome the newcomers.
The number one rule of fight club is to never
talk about fight club.
Members, however, constantly break this code
as they continue to invite other people to
the fights.
One day, the Man receives a call from Marla,
asking him why he hasn't attended the support
group meetings in weeks.
He tells her that he has found a new group
that allows only male members.
Marla tells him that she emptied a bottle
of Xanax but insists that she is not trying
to kill herself.
As Marla continues to talk, the Man gets annoyed
by her voice and decides to set the phone
down without hanging up.
Later on, the Man dreams about Marla getting
intimate with someone.
However, he finds out that it wasn't a dream
when he sees Marla walking around the kitchen.
When the Man asks what Marla is doing inside
his house, she gets mad at him and leaves.
Tyler then comes into the kitchen and tells
him that he had picked up the phone and talked
to Marla, so he decided to visit her to keep
her from overdosing.
However, the police soon arrive at her apartment
after someone tipped them off about Marla's
condition.
Tyler brings Marla over to his house and gets
intimate with her after treating her.
He then tells the Man to avoid speaking to
Marla about him, but he doesn't tell him why.
The Man becomes more annoyed with Marla, as
she starts visiting the house regularly to
be with Tyler.
One morning, the Man receives a call from
the police, telling him that a stick of homemade
dynamite had been used to torch his apartment.
That night, Tyler takes the Man to raid the
trash bin of a liposuction clinic to steal
the discarded fat and use it to make soap.
When they get home, Tyler explains how soap
can be turned into dynamite by just adding
a few more chemicals.
He then takes out a bottle of lye and demonstrates
its potency by pouring some of it on the back
of the Man's hand.
As the Man's skin starts to burn, he tries
to shut out the pain by meditating, but Tyler
jolts him awake, forcing him to feel it.
Finally, Tyler asks the Man to give up trying
to live his life the same way he had done
in the past and acknowledge that he will die
someday.
He then shows the Man a similar burn mark
on his hand before pouring vinegar on the
Man's hand to wash away the chemical.
At the office, the manager finds a copy of
the fight club's rules on the copier and confronts
the Man.
He threatens the manager, suggesting that
he might bring an Armalite into the office
and shoot all the people working there.
Their conversation gets interrupted when the
Man receives a call from Marla, who asks him
for help to check for lumps on her breasts.
The Man goes to her apartment, wondering why
she chose to call him instead of Tyler.
After leaving Marla, the Man runs into Bob,
who tells him that he's no longer attending
the support group meetings because he has
found something new.
Bob tells the Man that he's not supposed to
talk about the new club that he's joined,
but the Man recognizes it as the first rule
of the fight club and tells Bob that he's
also a member.
When the two face up against each other at
the club, Bob defeats the Man by forcing him
to tap out from his chokehold.
The fight club soon comes under threat when
Lou, the bar owner, discovers its existence.
While Tyler was reminding the members about
the club's rules, Lou and his bodyguard arrive
and tell them to leave.
Lou starts beating Tyler, who just laughs
it off even as he lays down on the ground
bleeding.
When Lou turns his back on him, Tyler grabs
him and pins him to the ground.
Tyler proceeds to cough blood all over Lou
until he agrees to let the club use the basement.
Tyler later gives the members an assignment,
ordering them to pick a fight with total strangers
and let them win.
The Man goes to his manager and threatens
to expose the company's corruption unless
they pay him.
After the boss fires him, the Man starts beating
himself up, while the manager watches him
in shock.
As the Man keeps hitting himself, he recalls
the night when he first fought with Tyler.
He tells the boss that he'll never set foot
in the office again if he agrees to write
him a regular paycheck.
The Man later leaves the office with the manager's
promise to send him 52 weekly paychecks and
48 airline flight coupons, allowing the club
to hold fights every night.
Members soon receive assignments from Tyler
telling them to vandalize buildings, shops,
and billboards.
While smashing cars on the streets with Tyler,
the Man learns that there are now numerous
chapters of the fight club across the country.
Later on, Tyler takes out a gun from the Man's
backpack and enters a convenience store.
He exits through the back with the clerk and
asks him what he aspired to be before working
at the store.
The clerk, named Raymond, said that he wanted
to be a veterinarian, but he couldn't finish
school.
Tyler threatens to kill Raymond if he hasn't
done anything to work his way up to become
a veterinarian in six weeks.
After Raymond runs away, Tyler tells the Man
that Raymond will learn to appreciate life
more when he wakes up the next day.
One day, the Man discovers that Tyler had
built bunk beds in the basement of their house.
He then learns that Tyler had also started
accepting applications for a secretive boot
camp that requires candidates to wait three
days in front of the house without food and
shelter.
Applicants soon begin piling up in front of
the house, Bob being one of them.
Once inside, they are subjected to manual
labor as Tyler lectures them about the evils
of consumerism.
The Man is perplexed why Tyler started recruiting
for an army.
He was shocked to learn later on that the
recruits had set several apartments on fire.
The incident has caught the attention of the
city's police commissioner, who surmises that
the crime is somehow related to underground
fight clubs.
When the Man asks why they would commit such
an act, the recruits tell him that it's part
of Project Mayhem, but the rule states that
no one is supposed to ask about it.
In the next stage of the project, the group
poses as waiters to infiltrate an official
gathering at a hotel.
When the commissioner goes to the bathroom,
the waiters follow him there and attack him.
Tyler threatens to castrate the police chief
unless he calls off the investigation on the
fight club.
He further reveals that the men involved in
the crime are the ones that people depend
on to cook their meals, drive their cars,
haul their trash, etc.
The police chief agrees to stop the probe,
and they all leave the hotel.
The Man has begun to feel excluded from the
club because of his lack of knowledge about
their plans regarding Project Mayhem.
He lashes out by beating one of the recruits
to a pulp during a fight.
On the way home after the fight, the Man starts
berating Tyler for not including him in Project
Mayhem from the beginning.
Tyler, who is driving the car, tells the Man
that the project belongs to the whole club,
not just the two of them.
Tyler drives on the wrong side of the road,
and lets go of the steering wheel as he scolds
the Man for refusing to forget about his past
life and his individuality.
The Man tries to take the steering wheel,
but Tyler tells him to let go and stop trying
to control everything.
When the Man capitulates, they soon crash
into another car.
When they emerge from the vehicle, Tyler tells
him that they just went through a "near-life
experience."
The following day, the Man looks for Tyler
in their house, but he is nowhere to be seen.
Despite Tyler's absence, the recruits are
still busy planning their project.
When the Man tries to inspect the plans, a
recruit stops him, assuring him that everything
is under control.
Marla pays a visit to the house, hoping to
come inside, but when the Man says that Tyler
is not around, she decides to leave.
Recruits soon arrive at the house in a panic,
saying someone has been shot during an assignment.
They were tasked to destroy a large art display
outside a corporate building and destroy a
franchise coffee bar.
The mission was running smoothly until the
police arrive and shoot at them, killing Bob
in the process.
Feeling that the group has gone too far, the
Man starts looking for Tyler in the hopes
that he will put an end to the dangerous project.
Using Tyler's used ticket stubs, the Man flies
to different cities and visits the bars and
other businesses where fight clubs were founded.
After striking out at various establishments,
he comes across a joint where he hears employees
paying tribute to Bob.
The bartender welcomes the Man back, even
though he isn't familiar with the place.
The Man asks the bartender if he recognizes
him, prompting the bartender to wonder if
he is being put to the test.
After being assured that he's not being tested,
the bartender tells the Man that he's Tyler
Durden.
In his confusion, the Man returns to his hotel
room and calls Marla to ask her if they've
ever been intimate.
Marla confirms that they are in a relationship
and addresses him as Tyler.
After Marla hangs up, Tyler appears in the
room, expressing his disappointment with the
Man for breaking his promise to avoid mentioning
him to Marla.
After questioning Tyler about his situation,
the Man soon recalls some of the things he's
done since they met.
He then realizes that he and Tyler are the
same person.
Tyler explains that the Man has been looking
for ways to change his life, so he appeared.
When the Man points out that Tyler has his
own jobs, Tyler tells him that the Man took
on other jobs at night because he can't sleep.
Tyler later tells the Man that Marla poses
a threat to their plans because she knows
too much.
The Man soon collapses from exhaustion while
they were arguing about Tyler's dangerous
plans.
When he wakes up, he immediately runs out
of his room to fly back home.
When he arrives at the house, he finds Project
Mayhem's plans, which are targeting several
buildings in the financial district.
He tries warning the management of each facility,
but he soon learns that they have all been
infiltrated by the group.
In his desperation, he grabs all the documents
he can carry and leaves the house.
He then meets with Marla and convinces her
to leave the city for her own safety.
After Marla gets on a bus out of the city,
the Man turns himself over to the police and
tells them about Project Mayhem.
He reveals that Tyler wants to bomb key facilities
in the business district to erase the records
of credit card debts.
The lead detective listens intently to the
details of the plans, but he soon leaves the
room to verify some of the information.
With the lead detective out of the way, the
three remaining officers in the room start
commending the Man about Project Mayhem.
However, they tell him that they have to castrate
him because he apparently ordered them to
take the testicles of anyone who interferes
with the group's plans, including him.
As the officers prepare to cut him, the lead
detective knocks on the door and tells them
to pay a visit to Tyler's house.
The Man manages to grab an officer's gun and
escape from the police station.
He heads straight to one of the buildings
on Tyler's list to look for the bomb.
He finds it in the parking garage and tries
to disarm it, thinking that he would also
know how to do it because Tyler knows.
When he manages to deactivate the bomb, Tyler
starts beating him up.
The surveillance camera monitors, however,
reveal that he's only fighting with himself.
Tyler then throws the Man down the stairs,
rendering him unconscious.
When the Man wakes up, he finds himself tied
up in a room with Tyler holding a gun to his
mouth.
The Man begs Tyler to abandon his plan, but
Tyler insists that the project must be carried
out to free people from consumerism.
Tyler assures him that no one will die from
the explosions because the buildings are empty.
The Man soon realizes that the gun isn't really
in Tyler's hands but in his own.
He then tells Tyler that his eyes have been
opened and puts the gun in his mouth.
However, when he pulls the trigger, the bullet
exits to the side of his face, close to the
ear.
Tyler, who has a gaping wound on the back
of his head, falls to the ground and disappears.
Members of the club soon arrive, bringing
Marla with them.
The Man tells them to leave Marla with him
and wait for him downstairs.
After they leave, Marla starts berating the
Man for sending a gang after her, but she
stops in shock when she sees the wound on
his head.
As soon as the Man tells her that everything
will be fine, the bombs start exploding, sending
the buildings around them into freefall.
As more buildings collapse, the Man tells
Marla that she met him at a strange time in
his life.